In this lab you’ll be making a hash table implementation safe to use concurrently.  You’ll be given a serial hash 
table  implementation,  and  two  additional  hash  table  implementations  to  modify.  You’re  expected  to  implement 
two  locking  strategies  and  compare  them  with  the  base  implementation.  The  hash  table  implementation  uses 
separate  chaining  to  resolve  collisions.  Each  cell  of  the  hash  table  is  a  singly  linked  list  of  key/value  pairs.  You 
are  not  to  change  the  algorithm,  only  add  mutex  locks.  Note  that  this  is  basically  the  implementation  of  Java 
concurrent hash tables,  except they have an optimization that doesn’t create a  linked list if there’s only one entry 
at a hash location.

Additional  APIs.  Similar  to  Lab  2,  the  base  implementation  uses  a  linked  list,  but  instead  of  TAILQ,  it  uses 
SLIST.  You  should  note  that  the  SLIST_  functions  modify  the  pointers  field o f s truct l ist_entry. For your 
implementation  you  should  only  use  pthread_mutex_t,  and  the  associated  init/lock/unlock/destroy  functions. 
You will have to add the proper #include yourself

Starting  the  lab.  Download  the  lab3  skeleton  code  from  the  course  BruinLearn  page  under  the  assignments 
tab.
You should be able to run make in the lab3 directory to create a hash-table-tester executable, and then 
make  clean  to  remove  all  binary  files. T he e xecutable t akes t wo c ommand l ink a  rguments: - t c hanges the 
number of threads to use (default 4), and -s changes the number of hash table entries to add per thread (default 
25,000).  For example you can run:  ./hash-table-tester  -t  8  -s  50000


Files  to  modify.  You should only be modifying hash-table-v1.c, hash-table-v2.c, and README.md in the 
lab3 directory.


Tester Code. The tester code generates consistent entries in serial such that every run with the same -t and -s flags will receive the same data. All hash tables have room for 4096 entries, so for any sufficiently large number of additions, there will be collisions. The tester code runs the base hash table in serial for timing comparisons, and the other two versions with the specified number of threads. For each version it reports the number of $\mu\text{s}$ per implementation. It then runs a sanity check, in serial, that each hash table contains all the elements it put in. By default your hash tables should run -t times faster (assuming you have that number of cores). However, you should have missing entries (we made it fail faster!). Correct implementations should at least have no entries missing in the hash table. However, just because you have no entries missing, you still may have issues with your implementation (concurrent programming is significantly harder).  

Your task. Using only pthread_mutex_*, you should create two thread safe versions of the hash table “add en-
try” functions.  You only have to add locking calls to hash_table_v1_add_entry and hash_table_v2_add_entry, 
all other functions are called serially, mainly for sanity checks.  By default there is a data race finding and adding  entries  to  the  list.  You’ll  need  to  fill i n y our README.md completely. Most sections a re w hat y ou expect from  previous labs, however there is more to add for this lab (explained below).

- For  the  first version, v1, you should only be concerned with correctness. Create a single mutex, only for v1, and make hash_table_v1_add_entry thread safe by adding the proper locking calls.  Remember, you should only 
modify code in hash-table-v1.c.  You’ll have to explain why your implementation is correct in your README.md. 
You should test it versus the base hash table implementation and also add your findings to README.md.

- For the second version, v2, you should be concerned with correctness and performance. You can now create
as many mutexes as you like in hash-table-v2.c. Make hash_table_v2_add_entry thread safe by adding the
proper locking calls. Similar to the first version, you’ll need to explain why your implementation is correct, test
it’s performance against the previous implementations, and add your findings to README.md.

In both cases you may add fields to any hash table struct: the hash table, hash_table_entry, or list_entry.
Your code changes should not modify contains or get_value. Any other code modifications are okay. However,
you should not change any functionality of the hash tables.


Errors. You will need to check for errors for any pthread_mutex_* functions you use. You may simply exit
with the proper error code. You are expected to destroy any locks you create. The given code passes valgrind
with no memory leaks, you should not create any.

Tips. Since this is a lab about concurrency and parallelism, you may want to significantly increase the number
of cores given to your virtual machine, or run your code on a Linux machine with more cores

Example output. You should be able run:
> ./hash-table-tester -t 8 -s 50000
Generation: 130,340 usec
Hash table base: 1,581,974 usec
- 0 missing
Hash table v1: 359,149 usec
- 28 missing
Hash table v2: 396,051 usec
- 24 missing

Testing. There are a set of basic test cases given to you. We’ll withhold more advanced tests which we’ll use
for grading. Part of programming is coming up with tests yourself. To run the provided test cases please run the
following command in your lab directory:
python -m unittest

Submission.
  1. All lab submissions will now take place on BruinLearn. You will find submission links for all labs under the
  assignment page.
  2. The submission format is a single .tar.gz file. This archive should include all files that were given to you
  in the skeleton(create a tar file from your lab3 directory). Do not inclue any executable, pycache directory
  etc that are not included in the skeleton code directory. You should only modify the skeleton code in this
  directory. The name of the file should be your student ID with no separators (eg: 4051238888.tar.gz).
  3. Your submission will be graded solely based on your last submission to BruinLearn, without any exceptions.
  Please double check your submission to make sure you submit the correct version of your implementation.

Grading. The breakdown is as follows:
  1. 70% code implementation
  2. 30% documentation in README.md

Detailed Rubrics
Performance check [50 pts]
Approach for performance/correctness grading:
  1. Run the same test for 3 times.
  2. If it does not miss any element during all 3 runs, give the correctness grade.
  3. If the implementation misses an element even in one of the runs, no credit for either performance or
  correctness.
  4. If the implementation reaches the expected performance in one of the runs, give the correct performance
  grade.

V1 grading
  1. Must be slower than base implementation.
  2. Test 1 - High number of elements = 15pts (10pts performance, 5pts correctness).

V2 grading
  1. Test 1 - High number of elements, high performance criteria (v2 ≤base/(num cores - 1)) = 55pts (45pts
  performance, 10pts correctness).
  2. If correctness is OK but performance criteria do not match:
  3. Try Test 2 - High number of elements, weak performance criteria (v2 ≤base/(num cores /2)) = 45pts
  (35pts performance, 10pts correctness).
  4. If correctness is OK but performance criteria do not match:
  5. Test 3 - Low number of elements, weak performance criteria = 35pts (25pts performance, 10pts correctness).
  6. Test-1, Test-2, and Test-3 are mutually exclusive. For example, V2 grading will be done via one of these
  three test groups.
  7. For instance, if correctness was achieved in TestX but performance criteria were not, then we tried TestX+1,
  but this time the implementation missed some elements, so no credit for correctness.

Documentation [30 pts]:
  1. The explanation of using the mutex is reasonable (5 pts for v1; 10 pts for v2, as long as it’s reasonable and
  faster than v0) and consistent with the implementation (5 pts + 5 pts for v1 and v2 respectively). [25 pts]
  2. V1 slowness explanation: students must mention thread definition-related overhead. [5 pts]
  Code implementation [20 pts]:
  1. Wrong locking/unlocking place [5 pts]
  2. Forgetting to unlock in the case of existing list entry – causing an unlockable hash table entry [5 pts]
  3. No error handling on mutex calls [5 pts]
  4. No mutex cleanup [5 pts]